Builtin Template Tags
=====================

Generally you will get access to the menus created by treenav through
template tags.  Currently treenav offers four template tags to use.

Show Treenav
------------
.. highlight:: html+django

::

    {% show_treenav "top-level-slug" full_tree="False" %}


This is the canonical tag you will be using.  It outputs nested lists starting
with all the children of the menu item with a slug matching top-level-slug.
Then it builds the next level down if one exists for the active leg of the tree
and so on.  Take note that only the active portion of the tree will be shown
unless `full_tree` is True, i.e. ``full_tree="True"``.  To see the HTML output go to `Menu HTML Example`_.

Render Menu Children
--------------------

::

    {% render_menu_children model-object %}

This takes in the an MenuItem model instance and builds a nested list like
`Menu HTML Example`_.  This is used for the most part internally and is the same
as show_treenav except it takes in the model object instead of its slug and does
not have a full_tree option.

..  _html-example:

Menu HTML Example
-----------------

The above two templates tags use the same template to generate lists.

Note that Tests is the page currently active, it as well as its parents have
the class `active-menu-item` attached to them.  The links on active nodes are
marked with the class `active-menu-item-link`.  The depth-N class, where N starts
at 0 and increases for each nested UL, it is often used to help apply custom CSS
depending on how deeply a UL is nested.

The top most list items and links are `top-level` and `top-level-link`
respectively.  Deeper lists have the class `parent-slug-child` which can be seen
on the Test item.


::

    <ul id="menu-primary-nav" class="menu depth-0">
        <li id="menu-item-home" class="inactive-menu-item top-level">
            <a class="inactive-menu-item-link top-level-link" href="/" title="Home">Home</a>
        </li>
        <li id="menu-item-about" class="active-menu-item top-level">
            <a class="active-menu-item-link top-level-link" href="/about/" title="About">About</a>
            <ul id="menu-about" class="menu depth-1">
                <li id="menu-item-test" class="active-menu-item about-child">
                    <a class="active-menu-item-link about-child-link" href="/test/" title="Test">Test</a>
                </li>
            </ul>
        </li>
    </ul>


Single Level Menu
-----------------

::

    {% single_level_menu "top-level-slug" 6 %}

This is used to build single level navigations.  The first argument is used to
define the `MenuItem` that will be used as the top of the tree and the second argument
defines the level to be displayed.  Often this will be used when a page has multiple
menus where one menu is the top level, and another is the first level
of the active page.

For HTML output go to `Menu HTML Example`_.  Although the
example is two levels, this can only output one.  One thing to note is the if you
select a depth of 3 then the depth class mentioned above will be depth-3, not 0
even though its the top(and only) UL.

Show Menu Crumbs
----------------

::

    {% show_menu_crumbs "top-level-slug" %}


Builds a list of the active MenuItems between the `top-level-slug` and the
current active menu item as to build a breadcrumb stucture.

HTML Output
***********
The HTML generated by `show_menu_crumbs`.


::

    <ul>
        <li>
            <a href="/" title="Home">
                Home
            </a>
        </li>
        <li>
            <a href="/admin" title="Test">
                Test
            </a>
        </li>
        <li>
            <a href="/test/" title="New Test">
                New Test
            </a>
        </li>
    </ul>

